Ornstein that's in force from today
hugely controversial we were just
speaking to Michael O'Leary from Ryanair
who is absolutely lambasted that scheme
once again yeah airlines are absolutely
livid many airlines on their knees
already as a result of barely any trade
at all in the last couple of months and
this making the picture even more bleak
for the next couple of weeks at least
we've seen the criticism coming from
conservative backbenchers as well as the
opposition as to what they see is the
wrong headedness of this policy now many
suggesting it would have been better
earlier in the pandemic rather than at
this point as lots of other countries
are starting to reopen Downing Street
saying in a briefing call with
Westminster reporters earlier that their
early evidence suggested a high degree
of complaints clearly not compliant in
terms of people keeping themselves
isolated because then I barely got home
from the airport of a plane arrived in
the UK this morning but in terms of
cooperating with the paperwork demanded
of them on arriving in the UK providing
for instance an address that they'll be
heading to for that 14-day period of
quarantine so yeah the prospects of
scrutiny for mr. Hancock on that as well
as as a say on care homes and the
current statistics and potentially as
well as some follow-up questions given
the nature of the language we heard from
the Home Secretary Priti Patel there on
the events in London and in Bristol over
the weekend
Priti Patel talking about hooliganism
mobs thugs and criminals very very
strong language from the Home Secretary
they're talking about those minority
of protesters who pulled down the statue
you were talking they went you to the
man yes thank you okay here it good
afternoon and welcome to the Downing
Street daily coronavirus briefing today
I want to update you on social care as
something that I know is of huge
importance to everybody watching and I'd
also like to welcome David Pearson to
the press conference his new role as
chair of our national covert 19 social
care support task force before turning
to social care though I'd like to take
you through the latest coronavirus data
and if we turn now to the first slide
the first slide shows the number of new
cases confirmed in the UK and also shows
the level of testing
there were 138 thousand one hundred and
eighty three tests done yesterday
bringing the total to over 5.7 million
and as you can see in this chart the
number of confirmed cases confirmed with
a positive test yesterday was 1205 and
that is the lowest since the end of
March and you can clearly see the
seven-day rolling average also
continuing to fall next slide please the
data from hospitals also shows a
continued fall the number of admissions
with kovat 19 across England Wales and
Northern Ireland has fallen again to 519
that's down from 661 a week ago so we
can see the continued downward trend in
the total number of new daily admissions
and the number of people on mechanical
ventilators in the UK as a whole is also
falling and is now 516 next slide please
here in this chart we can see the number
of people in hospital with kovat 19 on a
regional basis and I know there's been a
lot of interest in the regional our
figure in recent days
the estimate of saige taking into
account all of the evidence is that R is
below 1 in all regions and we can see in
this chart that in all areas the number
of people in hospital with coronavirus
is falling in all regions faster in some
areas than in others and it is on that
downward trajectory in each individual
case and the total number of people in
hospital is 6400 and 3 which is down
from over seven and a half thousand at
this time last week if we turn now to
the final slide the number of deaths
from coronavirus with the positive test
yesterday was 55 and that recorded
figure is the lowest since the 21st of
March now these data do tend to be lower
at weekends so we do expect that figure
to rise again in future but you can see
also that the 7-day rolling average
continues to fall and that means that
the total number of deaths stands at
40,000 597 and as I've said in the house
just now though the number is much lower
than it has been each of these deaths
still represents a tragedy for a family
and a community and we will continue all
of our work to drive that figure down
I'm glad to be able to report also that
the number of deaths recorded in London
hospitals yesterday was zero and
likewise in Scotland there were no
recorded deaths so that is very good
news for the capital and for Scotland
and all of these data are pointing in
the right direction and it shows that we
are winning the battle with this disease
but they also show that there's further
to go
if I now turn to care homes the number
of people dying in care homes is also
falling figures from the CQC show that
there's a 79 percent fall from the peak
of the crisis in care homes the week
ending April the 24th to the week ending
the 29th of May the latest when the data
is available and the latest ons data
show that there were twelve thousand
seven hundred and thirty nine registered
deaths in care homes in the year up to
the 22nd of May and this represents
twenty nine point one percent of all
registered covered deaths from the
earliest days of this crisis we
recognized that people in Social Care
were uniquely vulnerable two-thirds of
people in residential care are over the
age of 85 and the latest data from
public health England showed that the
over eighty s are seventy times seven
zero seventy times more likely to die
from coronavirus than the under 40's so
I know personally what an anxious time
it is and it has been for anyone with a
loved one in social care right from the
start we've given guidance and financial
support to care homes we've prioritized
testing we've strengthened the links
between the NHS and social care with an
aim clinical lead and for every care
home in England and we've asked councils
to conduct daily reviews of the
situation on the ground and the social
care covered 19 support taskforce which
David will be chairing will oversee
delivery of the next phase of our plan
for social care ensuring that care homes
have the support the training the
resources they need to control this
virus crucially this includes working
with the care system to develop a plan
for keeping staff and residents safe in
the months after as the lockdown
measures are eased now David Pearson
brings a wealth of experience in public
health and in social care so I'm very
glad
have him on board and he's perfect for
the role of driving this forward over
the weeks and months ahead I also want
to say a word about testing last month I
announced that all residents and staff
of elderly care homes in England would
receive a test by early June regardless
of whether they had symptoms or not and
I want to thank my team and those
colleagues in social care who have
delivered that target on time on
Saturday
we've now sent over a million test kits
to almost 9,000 elderly care homes and
the care homes themselves asked that
they have the flexibility to do the
tests when it works for them and the
good news is that the test results so
far do not show a significant rise in
the number of positive cases despite
going through and testing all of the
residents and staff throughout the
crisis we've been rapidly testing any
care home with an outbreak or any care
home resident or staff member with
symptoms and as we built up testing
capacity we prioritize testing of care
homes for the elderly making sure that
every resident and staff member could be
tested with whether or not they had
symptoms and the reason we did this is
because the evidence shows that age is
by far the greatest risk factor we'll
now make sure that we do all of this in
working aged care homes as well so I can
announce that from today all remaining
adult care homes in England will be able
to order the whole care home testing
service for residents and staff this
service will benefit residents and staff
in over 6,000 more care homes it'll mean
that right across adult social care
everyone will have the certainty and
confidence of a high quality coronavirus
test whether symptomatic or not
certainty about whether or not they're
carrying the virus and confidence that
they're doing the right thing both to
protect themselves and others but
finally this is carers week and I want
to say a heartfelt thanks to each and
every carer whether paid or unpaid
for all the work that they're doing to
support family and friends and loved
ones especially in this time of crisis
your duty and your devotion to a job
that you do with love in incredibly
challenging circumstances they're a huge
inspiration as we work through this
crisis together I understand what a
worrying at time it is and it's not just
because of the risk of the virus but
because you haven't physically been able
to be with your loved ones but that day
when we can reunite is getting closer
the curve continues to come down the NHS
has been protected our vaccine
development work is making progress
we're winning the battle against
coronavirus so please stay alert control
the virus and save lives and I'm now
going to ask David to set out the next
steps in the social care action plan and
the work to control coronavirus within
social care and protect residents and
staff that he'll be leading thank you
very much this virus has had a profound
effect on all of us but particularly the
residents of care homes and the many
people who receive social care and
support whilst living in their own homes
for families there has been the worry
and sadly in some cases the grief for
the loss of a family member due to the
impact of this disease there are
one-and-a-half million people working in
social care in England in care homes
home care day services personal
assistance and many other forms of care
and support as well as a range of
vomitoria sector initiatives all these
services helping to keep people safe and
the the best possible lives in these
circumstances they work in 18 and a half
thousand organizations and 38,000
different settings they have
demonstrated extraordinary acts of
kindness compassion and commitment we
owe those of you who work in social care
our gratitude for all that you do every
day the work we need to do now is to
support people who receive all these
services and those who work learning all
the things that we've learned around the
international evidence about what keeps
people safe and enables people to live
the best lives they can over the last
few days I have read some of the care
homes resilience plans that have been
submitted by local authority chief
executives working with care providers
directors of adult Social Services and
directors of Public Health working
closely with local health services from
this I know the enormous efforts that
are taking place locally to provide the
necessary support and resources that
people need ensuring the supply of
personal protective equipment supporting
the implementation of the testing
program providing the NHS deliver
training program in care homes on
infection prevention control the
appointment of a clinical leave for each
care home a consistent person to oversee
the treatment of residents and the
support of home care home staff a range
of support for the workforce including
extra payments to ensure that cover is
provided and safely in homes the task
force will bring together the concerted
and determined actions of central and
local government with care providers our
focus will be on stopping infection
whilst trying to ensure the well-being
of all people who receive care and
support whether they live in care homes
or at home social care has a crucial
role to play in supporting the people
who receive care and support and their
carers and our job is to harness our
efforts as we go through the various
phases of this pandemic and support
social cat's care in its crucial role
thank you thank you very much David I
will now take questions from the public
before turning to questions from the
media and the first question by video is
from Rebecca from North Fleet
Rebecca Northern Ireland have announcer
allowing weddings again with more
weddings be permitted in England well
thank you very much Rebecca the answer
is just I'm afraid the same answer I
give to so many questions about what
will we be able to do in future which is
that I would love to see the the joy of
big weddings being able to start again
and we will do that when it is safe to
do so
but unfortunately as we all know mass
gatherings the gatherings of over six
people are against the rules because
we've got to control the virus so I'm
terribly sorry not to be able to give a
more positive answer about when when we
can once again have big celebratory
weddings but I really hope Rebecca that
by controlling the virus and getting the
numbers right down we can start to
release more measures and one day we'll
get two big weddings thank you very much
next question is from Andrew from
Anglesey and angry from Anglesey asks
some scientists are saying the our
number is at one in some parts of the
country are you going to lock down these
parts of the country and how would this
be police to stop people traveling to
other parts of the country so Andrew
this is an incredibly important question
and the approach that we're taking is to
keep our below one across the country as
a whole which means that the number of
new infections will continue to fall
that is our goal and you can see from
today's data that the plan is working
but also that if we see it outbreaks in
a particular area then we'll take local
action and in the first instance this
will mean for instance action in
hospitals or in particular care homes to
to make sure that there are the this
control of those outbreaks and David I
might ask you to comment on what we do
to control individual outbreaks in care
homes and but
thus far when you take all of the
different studies into account not an
individual study and when you take the
overall balance of the the not just the
models but also the measurements from
the Office for National Statistics the
scientists conclusion is that our is
below one in all parts of the country
but of course we keep that under
constant review and we're always looking
at the latest information thankfully at
the moment it demonstrates that the
number of infections continues to fall
and that's true
across the UK but where there are
individual flare-ups and outbreaks then
we'll take action and David maybe you
could set out what what that means if
you if there's an outbreak in an
individual care and although the number
of outbreaks in care homes has come
right yes I'm pleased to say it is it is
coming down significantly first of all
at a local level directors of public
health directors of adult social care
and local authority chief execs with
health services are keeping a very close
watch on what is happening in care homes
and helping their care homes with the
new testing the testing regime to ensure
that we understand who is infected in
terms of residents and staff
particularly as over the course of the
last several months across the world
it's become clear that there is much
more asymptomatic
many more people who test positive who
are asymptomatic in other words have no
symptoms and therefore the testing is
critical to understand who has the virus
and then making sure that people if
you're at work and I have the virus they
take time to isolate and come back
hopefully fit and well but they're not
actually generating further infection in
the home and secondly to ensure that we
understand who amongst the residents has
has the virus that they get the
appropriate support from the clinicians
and they are in an appropriate
environment within the home so actually
making sure that they are isolated and
that the staff who work with them have
the appropriate PPE personal protective
equipment and
appropriate clinical advice about how to
best care for them the public health
protection agency are also involved in
this so specialist teams who can advise
care homes about the management of those
infections at a local level thanks very
much David and so in the first instance
this local action will be in in in for
instance in hospitals or cams where
there is an individual outbreak and so
we'll try to be as localized as possible
that further measures are available and
we could take further measures in terms
of local action but we hope to be able
to avoid that by finding a much more
localized spot where there's an outbreak
in order to take very local action and
then be able to test the community
nearby to find out if there's been
further spread and so that's the
approach that we're taking much more
about targeted local action and I hope
we don't therefore have to resort to the
sorts of measures that you that you
mentioned Andrew thanks very much
two excellent questions from the public
the questions next questions are from
the media and the first I'm going to
turn to is cue PIM from the BBC thank
you very much indeed Secretary of State
you said in the House of Commons this
afternoon that coronavirus is in retreat
across the land I was wondering if you
could spell out why in more detail you
felt confident enough to say that given
there is obviously always the
possibility of a second spike thank you
very much Hugh and I think it's
important to look at all the figures and
all of the information and all of the
scientific advice and the good news is
that whilst this is clearly not over
there is progress on all of those
statistics and the figures on the number
of people who died do tend to be lower
at the weekend but were 55 yesterday and
across the country as a whole and as I
said zero in Scotland and in London
hospitals and the number of new
infections is down to just over 1,200
recorded by positive tests which is the
lowest that we've seen for several
months now in care homes the latest
weekly figures show an almost 50% fall
in the number of new care homes
reporting an outbreak compared to the
week before and if you look at the total
number of excess deaths compared to what
the number of people who normally died
at this time of year across the country
and that has come right down as well
so when you look across the board it is
clear that coronavirus is in retreat
across the country but we must be
vigilant and we must be cautious and we
are taking a safety-first approach it
means that we can proceed with our plan
of making some changes for instance
looking towards the proposals that have
made next week on the retail sector and
that people can have confidence to take
their children to school in the three
years that we've opened so far and
Mazhar carefully and safely calibrated
to be able to make steps out of lockdown
without having an undue positive impact
but we keep all of these things under
review can I ask David Pearson a quick
question on social care of course care
homes some have reported feeling
abandoned a couple of months ago they
weren't given the support they needed
they felt to keep their residents safe
whether it was PPE or lack of testing
what lessons do you think have been
learnt from that time I think the the
important thing now is that the the
evidence from the care home resilience
plans that I was reading over the
weekend is just the amount of effort
energy that is taking place at a local
level to ensure that care homes get all
the support that they need and including
a sort of continuing dialogue about the
particular issues in particular care
homes and the risks that's they face
and that's taking account of all of the
new international evidence that I've
referred to earlier so understanding
about the asymptomatic level of
asymptomatic infection amongst residents
and staff ensuring that we have within
that and that's their testing making
sure that we we work with the care homes
to ensure that they have to have the the
staff that are trained appropriately in
infection prevention control both to
protect the residents and to protect
them ourselves as well as the additional
resources that have come from the
600-million infection prevention control
fund to help support the work the work
force costs of covering care home safely
so I think there's a there's a the the
point about this is that it's the
totality of those measures that make a
difference there were already some great
work taking place at local level I've
heard about it up and down the country
the point about this virus it it is so
puny sheis that we need to put
everything in place all at once right
consistently across the country and
though that's that's our task for the
task force and the wider network of
health and care services thanks very
much you the next question is from Paul
brand from ITV Paul thank you very much
firstly to the health secretary we've
been filming today in Surrey with
families you've moved in full time with
their loved ones because they are so
afraid of the risk of Coby 19 in care
can you honestly tell people tonight
that it is now safe to send their loved
ones into games yes Paul the the the
answer is that with all of the measures
that we've put in place over the last
few months all of the billions of pounds
extra that we've put in and the it is
clear that the epidemic in care homes is
coming under control that measure that I
just read out that in the in the last
week the latest weekly figures show an
almost 50% fall in the number of new
care homes reporting an outbreak shows a
significant progress and even those care
homes where there are cases
have very strong infection control
procedures in place and in fact if you
look at the proportion of people in the
UK who have sadly died in care homes it
is significantly lower than comparable
countries across Europe and I think this
shows that the measures that we've put
in place and strengthened over time have
have had that positive impact but I also
of course understand why people are
worried of course I do it's natural and
we'll keep on strengthening the measures
you know this isn't over and I think
bringing in that David who we've been
working together on this for some time
but but bringing in David as the chair
of this task force now demonstrates we
will continue to strengthen the measures
in care homes just a quick follow-up
actually to thank you and if I may what
is it that you think needs to be put in
place now that perhaps wasn't putting
based before and do you think it's
accurate to say that a protective ring
was put around the care sector I think
what we need to put in place now is the
is that is the measures that I've set
out which have been brought from the
evidence that's that's been available
across the country but internationally
about the sorts of outbreaks that people
have had all over the world and how they
have for how they have dealt with them
we've been keeping a very close eye on
that international evidence through Sage
and through public health England which
has informed the plan that you've got
before you today so I think it's it's
it's that we have to be vigilant about
the future we have to make sure that
we're continuing to learn across the
world and in care homes and in all of
our settings about how we can apply new
things as we take this forward but when
you look at the evidence across the
world you look at the things that we
were putting into place they are the
right measures in order to bring
infection prevention control under bring
it all under control
further drive down the levels of
infection and keep people safe and
that's our that's our must be our
commitment as a country towards the
people who are amongst the most
vulnerable in our communities thanks
very much
Rigby from Sky Thank You health
secretary some scientists are worried
that you'll lift in the lockdown too
early and risking an insurgence of
infections because of your fears for the
economy in the threat of millions of job
losses it's a very difficult trade-off
that you've got to make here what
mortality rate do you accept
we'll have to live with to reopen the
economies it 50 deaths a day is that a
hundred is it 200 is it more a mr.
Pearson if I may we've had a
particularly acute coronavirus crisis in
our care homes a crisis that some
countries have managed to avoid why do
you think it happened here thanks Beth
the answer to the first is that there
just isn't a trade-off it just there
just isn't a trade-off if we don't have
control of this virus then the economy
will suffer a yet more and the job of
the government and the work of the
government has been to get the infection
rate right down and then the task is to
hold it down while safely reopening the
the normal activities as much as is
safely possible and that's both on the
economic front and the things the things
that make life worth living like being
able to see your grandparents and that
is a that is a that is a massive piece
of work but you know it's just
simplistic to say that there's a
trade-off between the economy and health
and a second spike would be hugely
dominate damaging for the economy of
course those judgments over timing but
as the statistics demonstrate and the
data and the charts that we show
regularly at this press conference
demonstrate things are moving in the
right direction and that's why we were
able to say that coronavirus is in
retreat and that's why we're able to
keep taking the steps forward through
the plan that we've laid out to to lift
some of the most difficult lockdown
measures whilst increasing our
capability to take the local action that
we
was discussed in the questions from
members of the public and on the second
question I hand over to yes certainly so
many countries develop countries across
the world have had the similar types of
difficulties to the United Kingdom in
terms of of care home outbreaks so that
is definitely something that's happens
right across the world when we whether
it be Italy Spain and other countries
when we look at what has happened in
other places some other places haven't
had the kind of prevalence of of
community transmission of the disease
that we have had here the more
concentrated the population the more you
can get levels of infection so we are a
relatively small country with a
relatively large population that can be
an issue and I suppose when you look at
those other that international research
what you come across is that people some
countries like us have had those
outbreaks have learnt these learnt about
the totality of the measures that need
to be booked in put in place about the
way in which the disease is transmitted
and the impact on the care sector and
have put in just the sort of measures
that we are here so the focus for the
future is making sure we continue to
learn because we will learn more about
this disease both in its community
transmission and in care settings and we
have to be very agile and quick to learn
whatever is coming forward from both the
UK and other places in order to adapt
our plans they will not stay the same we
will flex them and necessarily so to
make sure we have an impact
thanks very much next questions from
Jason groves of the Daily Mail Jason a
question for mr. Pearson first is it do
you think self funders in care homes
should be contributing to the cost of
dealing with the corona virus epidemic
no as a reporter the weekend some of
them are being asked to stump up an
extra 100 pounds a week and secretary of
state can I ask why we have to
and two meters apart in this country
when in France in Denmark it's
considered safe to stand warned me to
apart and how do you expect the
hospitality sector and schools to
function of that distance
well thanks Jason if David if you answer
the first question come on so obviously
we have a system where about half of the
people in care homes funds themselves
because that's the system that we've got
and half funded by local authorities and
help the Health Service and what's
happened is that the costs of some of
the additional costs of PPE and other
things for example have been reflected
in some of the grants that the
government has gifted the 3.2 billion
and latterly the 600 million and my
understanding is that the reason why the
600 million 75 percent of the 600
million was was allocated as a lump sum
to each care hamm through local
authorities was the recognition that
this disease is no no doesn't it doesn't
direct itself according to WHO pays its
indiscriminate in that sense and
therefore that's why the decision was
taken in order to give a lump sum to
support the care home sector in terms of
those some of those costs particularly
in terms of infection prevention control
and some of the support that is needed
to make sure that the workforce can work
safely in care homes so I think these
things are under constant review but
those are the measures that have already
been put in place and on your first
question Jay on your second question
sorry the question that was directed to
me Jason and the one metre rule that
some countries have the two metre rule
that we have these are based on
judgments based on the science and the
side
you
the countries that have rules with
with lower you've got to take into
account the totality of the social
distancing measures because if you relax
one social distancing measure and then
that will have an impact on whether you
can relax other social distancing
measures so you've got to look at the
whole in the round you can't take one
particular rule on its own we keep the 1
the 2 meter rule under review all of the
thyme and sage have been doing some work
on this recently but ultimately it isn't
the rule that's the challenge to the
opening of hospitality in a safe way
it's the virus and we have to find ways
to be able to reopen the economy in a
way that doesn't lead to the increased
spread of the virus because as I said
announcer to Beth the the idea of a
second peek a second spike would be
damaging to the economy right across the
board can I ask if you do I take your
point about to Mitchell do you with with
that in place do you expect school rules
to be really able to be open fully in
September because some of that a lot of
them mean that they can't well that that
is our that is our current working plan
is that they won't open secondary
schools won't open until September at
the earliest I very much hope that they
can because the impact on children's
education is so significant but what we
have to do not only in schools but right
across the board is work out how we can
get the other things that matter going
like schools like hospitality especially
outdoor hospitality like retail but get
them going safely and carefully in a way
that doesn't lead to the spread of the
virus and that is going to require
ingenuity you can already see the
ingenuity in lots of areas of the
economy and bars that have turned
themselves into takeaways all sorts of
different ways that people are providing
services and
making their business work in a way that
is consistent with social distancing and
therefore doesn't have an impact with
impact on the on the virus so I think
we've got to be we've got to be
innovative we've got to be thoughtful
about this and that's the approach that
we try to take in making these very
difficult policy judgments based on the
best available science and always guided
by that science with the uncertainty
that inherently there is in in the
science thanks very much
next question is from haroon Siddiqui at
the Guardian thank you it's deep by the
way not Siddiqui I'm very sorry about
that I I am my dyslexia got ahead of me
so I apologize that's okay the question
I wanted to ask you secretary of state
is if as you and the Prime Minister say
that Britain is not a racist country
which implies that there is not
structural racism in the UK please can
you explain why black Asian and minority
ethnic people are disproportionately
dying from covert 19 and please could
you also explain why black people are
being fined disproportionately under
lockdown rules well
Haroun the the the absolutely critical
piece of work is to follow on from the
Phe report that was published last week
with the answer to the question
objectively and based on the science why
is that death rate higher and take into
account all the different considerations
you know the the the importance of
getting the science right around this is
is critical and that involves making
sure that we look into the different
considerations like the the different
occupations that people have
the different levels of comorbidities
and other factors such as housing
because we know that diseases like this
spread more in lower quality housing
take into account all of those factors
and then act and that's the approach
that we should take and is the approach
that I we have we've kicked off that
next bit of work following the Phe
review and Kem about not is going to be
taking that forward working right across
government and and as and when we find
conclusions to that we will absolutely
we will put them into place thanks very
much and the final question is from
torkoal Creighton of the Daily Record
good afternoon sir Christy two questions
for me on quarantine you'd 14d self on
isolation policies up preview in three
weeks which is just enough time to to
make a beach booking around the english
school holidays at the end of july but
not the scottish school holidays which
end in which started in June and it to
be fair to everyone across the UK should
not review earlier Sheen these near
bridges be announced now and in direct
relevance to your own department I'd
like to know your comment on these
reports we're getting that doctors and
nurses medical staff returning to the UK
will not have to go through 14 day
quarantine they can go straight to work
but hospital porters care staff social
workers and cleaners and hospitals would
have to self isolate for 14 days if they
came back from holiday is that what the
guidance says well I'm really clear on
the on the importance of the quarantine
being due to the lower incidence of new
cases and that's the the basis on which
this is introduced as it now as opposed
to it the peak is because at the peak
you have a higher level of community
transmission domestically and so the
proportion of new cases that come from
people coming from overseas is much
lower even for the same number of new
cases coming from overseas so that was
the
that was the decision that we took
consistent with that scientific advice
and we're therefore implementing the
policy at the what we judged to be the
right time in the spread of the pandemic
and I and for those who aren't able to
go abroad for a holiday and I know the
impact that that will have this summer I
understand that and I just hope that we
will be able to get to a position where
people will be able to go on a holiday
including domestically and to safely and
carefully and and in a covert secure way
so that's the that that's the approach
that we're taking on the quarantine
policy you asked specifically about the
exemptions there are some very limited
exemptions but the numbers coming
through the exempt categories for
instance those who've been dealing with
coronavirus in other countries and the
returning and have been doing that
because of because of medical need a
mutual medical aid there are some
exemptions around that but they're very
very small in number thanks very much
well that ends today's a daily at
Downing Street Conference and thanks
very much to David Pearson and thank you
to you for tuning in and I'll see you
again no doubt
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News